.TH scr_srun 1  "" "SCR" "SCR"

.SH NAME
scr_srun \- srun wrapper script to simplify running SCR jobs

.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP
.B scr_srun [srun_options] <prog> [prog_args ...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBscr_srun\fR command wraps calls to a number of SCR commands and
other logic that simplifies the use of SCR in the common case.
Internally, it invokes \fBscr_prerun\fR, \fBsrun\fR, \fBscr_postrun\fR,
and \fBscr_index\fR.  It also contains logic to optionally restart
a job within an allocation.
.LP
Before calling \fBscr_srun\fR, it is required that the SCR_PREFIX environment
variable be set to specify the prefix directory where checkpoint directories
are to be written and read.  One may optionally specify the maximum number
of runs to be attempted by setting the SCR_RUNS environment variable to
some positive integer.
.LP
All options and arguments are passed directly to \fBsrun\fR.

.SH INTERPOSE
An application which has not integrated calls to the SCR API into its
source code may still be able to use SCR via the interpose library if
it adheres to certain conditions.  This library intercepts application
calls to MPI_Init, MPI_Finalize, open, and close, and transparently calls
functions in the SCR library as necessary.  When the SCR_CHECKPOINT_PATTERN
environment variable is set, the \fBscr_srun\fR command loads the SCR interpose
library via LD_PRELOAD.  The SCR_CHECKPOINT_PATTERN environment variable
must specify the file name of the checkpoint files using a regular
expression.  See the user manual for full details.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
(1) Set the prefix directory, the halt seconds, and number of runs
to attempt, then run the job:
.nf
>> export SCR_PREFIX=/p/lscratchb/username/run1/checkpoints
>> export SCR_HALT_SECONDS=3600
>> export SCR_RUNS=3
>> scr_srun -n512 -N64 ./my_job
.fi
.TP
(2) Set the checkpoint pattern to pick up files like rank_#.ckpt and
run with the SCR interpose library:
.nf
>> export SCR_CHECKPOINT_PATTERN="rank_[0-9]+.ckpt"
>> export SCR_PREFIX=/p/lscratchb/username/run1/checkpoints
>> export SCR_HALT_SECONDS=3600
>> export SCR_RUNS=3
>> scr_srun -n512 -N64 ./my_job
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
\fISCR User Manual\fR
.LP
\fBscr\fR(1), \fBscr_halt\fR(1), \fBscr_prerun\fR(1),
\fBscr_postrun\fR(1), \fBscr_index\fR(1)
