.TH scr_postrun 1  "" "SCR" "SCR"

.SH NAME
scr_postrun \- run after an SCR job completes (or fails)

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "scr_postrun [-j jobid] [-p prefix_dir]"

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBscr_postrun\fR command must be run after an SCR job to flush any
existing checkpoint set to the parallel file system before the allocation
is lost.  It executes logic to identify failed nodes and fetch redundant
file data as needed, and it calls \fBscr_index\fR to rebuild
missing checkpoint files.
.LP
The command requires the prefix directory to be specified via either
the \fB-p\fR option or the SCR_PREFIX environment variable.
.LP
One may invoke \fBscr_postrun\fR outside of a SLURM job allocation.
This is especially useful to manually flush checkpoint files from the
compute nodes to the parallel file system in the case that the job
step or job script is hanging or will otherwise fail to flush the
checkpoint files on its own accord. To flush files manually from outside
of the SLURM job allocation, one must specify the SLURM job id using
the \fB-j\fR option.  Note that there is no synchronization between the
running SCR application and the \fBscr_postrun\fR command. Hence, it is
possible that while the command is actively flushing files, the SCR
application may issue another checkpoint which would corrupt the
flushed set.  Even worse, the current implementation includes no logic
to detect such a corrupted set, and it may deem the corrupted set to
be valid.  To be safe, one must be sure the application will not issue
another checkpoint before the flush completes.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "-j " jobid
Specify the SLURM jobid of the SCR job from which to manually flush a
checkpoint set.  (Also remember to specifiy the prefix directory.)
.TP
.BI "-p " prefix_dir
Specify the prefix directory where SCR may read and write checkpoint
directories.  Uses SCR_PREFIX if set and \fB-p\fR is not specified.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
(1) Run scr_postrun within an allocation after a job step returns to flush checkpoint files:
.nf
>> #!/bin/bash
>> ...
>> srun ...
>> ...
>> scr_postrun -p /p/lscratchb/username/run1/checkpoints
>> if [ $? != 0 ] ; then
>>   echo "ERROR: scr_postrun failed"
>>   exit 1
>> fi
.fi
.TP
(2) Manually flush files from running job 1234 to the parallel file system:
.nf
>> scr_postrun -j 1234 -p /p/lscratchb/username/run1/checkpoints
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
\fISCR User Manual\fR
.LP
\fBscr\fR(1), \fBscr_srun\fR(1), \fBscr_halt\fR(1),
\fBscr_prerun\fR(1), \fBscr_index\fR(1)
