.TH scr_index 1  "" "SCR" "SCR"
.SH NAME
scr_index \- manages status of datasets stored on parallel file system

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "scr_index [options]"

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBscr_index\fR command manages datasets stored on the parallel
file system.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "-l, --list "
List contents of index (default behavior).
.TP
.BI "-a, --add " DIR
Add dataset directory to index.
.TP
.BI "-r, --remove " DIR
Remove dataset directory from index.  Does not delete corresponding files.
.TP
.BI "-c, --current " DIR
Specify directory as restart directory.
.TP
.BI "-p, --prefix"
Specify prefix directory (defaults to current working directory).
.TP
.BI "-h, --help"
Print usage.

.LP
When adding a directory to the index, the command checks
that the dataset directory on the parallel file system contains a
complete and valid set of files, it rebuilds missing
files if possible, and it writes a \fIsummary\fR
file, which is used by the SCR library to fetch and redistribute files
to appropriate ranks upon a restart.

One may invoke the command outside of a SLURM job allocation, which is
useful to check and rebuild a dataset set in which \fBscr_postrun\fR
may have failed to complete its internal call to \fBscr_index\fR.

When listing dataset, the internal SCR dataset id is shown,
along with a flag denoting whether the dataset is valid,
the time the dataset was flushed, and the dataset directory name.
The dataset marked as \fBcurrent\fR is denoted with a * symbol.
During a restart, SCR will attempt to fetch the most recent
checkpoint starting from the current dataset.
SCR will not attempt to fetch any dataset marked as invalid.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
(1) List dataset direcotries in index file:
.nf
>> scr_index --list
   DSET VALID FLUSHED             DIRECTORY
*    18 YES   2015-09-28T16:46:22 scr.dataset.18
     12 YES   2015-09-28T16:43:40 scr.dataset.12
      6 YES   2015-09-28T16:43:02 scr.dataset.6
.fi
.TP
(2) Add dataset directory to index file, rebuild missing files if necessary, and create summary file:
.nf
>> scr_index --add scr.dataset.20
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
\fISCR User Manual\fR
.LP
\fBscr\fR(1), \fBscr_srun\fR(1), \fBscr_halt\fR(1),
\fBscr_prerun\fR(1), \fBscr_postrun\fR(1)
